# EGFR-LUAD
Mutations in the Epithelial Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR) are key drivers of lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD). The two most prevalent mutations in LUAD, EGFR 19del and L858R, represent different response levels to targeted therapy and immunotherapy in the clinical practice. However, the mechanisms underlying cellular heterogeneity within the tumor microenvironment (TME) between these two mutations remain unclear. Here, we conducted an integrating analysis of 40 single cell transcriptomes from 11 patients with EGFR L858R mutation, 10 patients with EGFR 19del mutation, and 19 patients with wild-type EGFR. We identified the fibroblasts and their subpopulations were associated with the different EGFR mutant subtypes. Our results further showed that fibroblasts with high simultaneous expression of HGF and FGF7 were associated with lower efficacy of EGFR-tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) but exhibited a better response to immune checkpoint blockade (ICB). Cell-cell interaction and signature analysis identified several cell types corresponding to these response-related fibroblasts, including epithelial cells highly expressing KRT17 and CD8+ T cells highly expressing GZMB. Investigating the linear regression model and protein-protein network interactions revealed higher EGFR expression in 19del mutant patients, potentially indicative of better TKI response. These findings illuminate how distinct cellular states and signatures within the TME may contribute to the varied clinical treatment responses for TKI and ICB among the EGFR mutation subtypes in LUAD.
